Project Proposal

This application is based on finance, as it is, I am planning to find a correlation between financial news and interest rates. Higher interest rates increase the country’s currency in the global market. Conversely, lower interest rates tend to be unattractive for foreign investment and decrease the currencies. Even though interest rates alone are not sufficient to predict financial situations, it is the base of most of the predictions in finance. 
So far, I have gathered information regarding the sector and arranged meetings with Finance Professors. I am advised to use the US Stock Market and FED data for reaching more stable graphs. I am considering to analyze the news between 2000-2019/20 for Quantitative Easing Policy implementations, PMI releases, unemployment rates, specific situations in the global economy. For the data analysis part, I will collect the news and will try to find labels (such as a specific global situation affected interest rate negatively or positively) for them by analyzing the 2000-2019/20 interest rate graphic. After collecting and labeling data, I may omit some of them with respect to their standard deviation/z-score yet, in sight of importance. Then, with machine learning algorithms, we will try to train with cleaned data and predict short-term/long-term financial situations such as interest rates based on the simultaneously analyzed news sources. I am planning to keep a score for prediction, simultaneously checked news will increase or decrease this score based on their importance rates (which will be decided according to trained data and their labels), then gives a prediction about the interest rate. Also, users will be able to check previous predictions accuracy rates.

It is a multidisciplinary project between computer science and finance. As far as I searched, there are some articles about interest rate prediction yet, there is no such application that collects previous financial news and builds a data set then by collecting recent news simultaneously and trying to draw a graph for the interest rate in the future. By predicting interest rates nearly accurate, many approaches and financial predictions such as exchange rates or currency rates can be analyzed. Potential users of this application can be any people who are interested in finance or who are educated for the profession of finance, economy. 

To exemplify, if a person who follows the stock market rates, decides to put their money to good use, will have an idea about how they manage their money with our application. When the user enters the application, they can reach recent finance news and our prediction graph and results. The graph will contain the prediction of interest rate and how this prediction can affect other financial situations. According to our research, it is virtually impossible to predict currency, therefore many of the financiers make predictions based on the interest rates. Hence, if the user knows how to interpret the results, they can get an idea about whichever investment to choose. 

